README.md, before:

Simple usage
============

## Quickstart

To enter an environment without cloning this repository you can run:

```
nix-shell https://github.com/alpmestan/ghc.nix/archive/master.tar.gz
```

## Building GHC

These commands assume you have cloned this repository
to `~/ghc.nix`. `default.nix` has many parameters, all
of them optional. You should take a look at `default.nix`
for more details.


``` sh
$ sed -e '/BuildFlavour = quickest/ s/^#//' mk/build.mk.sample > mk/build.mk
$ nix-shell ~/ghc.nix/ --run './boot && ./configure && make -j4'
# works with --pure too
```

You can alternatively use Hadrian to build GHC:

``` sh
$ nix-shell ~/ghc.nix/
# from the nix shell:
$ ./boot && ./configure
# example hadrian command: use 4 cores, build a 'quickest' flavoured GHC
# and place all the build artifacts under ./_mybuild/.
$ hadrian/build.sh -j4 --flavour=quickest --build-root=_mybuild
# you could also ask hadrian to boot and configure for you, with -c

# if you have never used cabal-install on your machine, you will likely
# need to run the following before the hadrian command:
$ cabal update
```

## Using `ghcide`

You can also use `ghc.nix` to provide the right version of `ghcide` if you
want to use `ghcide` whilst developing on GHC. In order to do so, pass the `withIde`
argument to your `nix-shell` invocation.

```
nix-shell ~/.ghc.nix --arg withIde true
```

## Running `./validate`

``` sh
$ nix-shell ~/ghc.nix/ --pure --run 'THREADS=4 ./validate'
```

See other flags of `validate` by invoking `./validate --help` or just by reading its source code. Note that `./validate --slow` builds the compiler in debug mode which has the side-effect of disabling performance tests.

## Building and running for i686-linux from x86_64-linux

It's trivial!

``` sh
$ nix-shell ~/ghc.nix/ --arg nixpkgs '(import <nixpkgs> {}).pkgsi686Linux'
```

## TODO

- We currently can't just invoke `nix-build` ([#1](https://github.com/alpmestan/ghc.nix/issues/1))
- We do not support all the cross compilation machinery that
  `head.nix` from nixpkgs supports.
- Some tests actually break with GHCs built with the first
  command above.

Commit message:

Export CONFIGURE_ARGS
This variable will contain a recommended set of arguments to pass to
./configure to ensure that the tree is configured such that the
resulting compiler works even outside of nix-shell.

README.md, after:

Simple usage
============

## Quickstart

To enter an environment without cloning this repository you can run:

```
nix-shell https://github.com/alpmestan/ghc.nix/archive/master.tar.gz
```

## Building GHC

These commands assume you have cloned this repository
to `~/ghc.nix`. `default.nix` has many parameters, all
of them optional. You should take a look at `default.nix`
for more details.


``` sh
$ sed -e '/BuildFlavour = quickest/ s/^#//' mk/build.mk.sample > mk/build.mk
$ nix-shell ~/ghc.nix/ --run './boot && ./configure $CONFIGURE_ARGS && make -j4'
# works with --pure too
```

Note that we passed `$CONFIGURE_ARGS` to `./configure`. While this is
technically optional, this argument ensures that `configure` knows where the
compiler's dependencies (e.g. `gmp`, `libnuma`, `libdw`) are found, allowing
the compiler to be used even outsite of `nix-shell`.

You can alternatively use Hadrian to build GHC:

``` sh
$ nix-shell ~/ghc.nix/
# from the nix shell:
$ ./boot && ./configure $CONFIGURE_ARGS
# example hadrian command: use 4 cores, build a 'quickest' flavoured GHC
# and place all the build artifacts under ./_mybuild/.
$ hadrian/build.sh -j4 --flavour=quickest --build-root=_mybuild
# you could also ask hadrian to boot and configure for you, with -c

# if you have never used cabal-install on your machine, you will likely
# need to run the following before the hadrian command:
$ cabal update
```


## Using `ghcide`

You can also use `ghc.nix` to provide the right version of `ghcide` if you
want to use `ghcide` whilst developing on GHC. In order to do so, pass the `withIde`
argument to your `nix-shell` invocation.

```
nix-shell ~/.ghc.nix --arg withIde true
```

## Running `./validate`

``` sh
$ nix-shell ~/ghc.nix/ --pure --run 'THREADS=4 ./validate'
```

See other flags of `validate` by invoking `./validate --help` or just by reading its source code. Note that `./validate --slow` builds the compiler in debug mode which has the side-effect of disabling performance tests.

## Building and running for i686-linux from x86_64-linux

It's trivial!

``` sh
$ nix-shell ~/ghc.nix/ --arg nixpkgs '(import <nixpkgs> {}).pkgsi686Linux'
```

## TODO

- We currently can't just invoke `nix-build` ([#1](https://github.com/alpmestan/ghc.nix/issues/1))
- We do not support all the cross compilation machinery that
  `head.nix` from nixpkgs supports.
- Some tests actually break with GHCs built with the first
  command above.
